We must reform our bankruptcy code so that corporations keep their promises and meet their obligations to their workers.	0,737
The day after Pearl Harbor he signed up for duty, joined Patton's army and marched across Europe.	0,737
And they, too, had big dreams for their daughter, a common dream, born of two continents.	0,736
Too often, our children spend hours playing Playstation without ever finding out how to build Playstation.	0,735
We need to end these practices so that we're making life easier not just for the credit card companies, but for honest, hardworking middle-class families.	0,733
We may have occasion in our lifetime to once again rise up in defense of our freedom, and pay the wages of war.	0,729
And as Dick's getting out of the car, the driver says "excuse me, let me just give you a piece of advice.	0,728
We also know what else has gone up: the cost of child care and the cost of college, the cost home ownership and the cost of health care - which is now at a record high.	0,726
And we're riding down to Cairo and Dick Durbin turns to me and says, "Let me tell you about the first time I went to Cairo.	0,723
A dumb war.	0,720
We shouldn't wait until high school either.	0,719
We coach Little League in the Blue States and have gay friends in the Red States.	0,713
And if there's anything we can learn from this living saint sitting beside me, it is that change is never easy, but always possible.	0,712
And before we begin, I'd just like to recognize your CEO, Rick White, who is leaving TechNet after years of inspired leadership and service to this organization and this country.	0,710
He told me he'd joined the Marines and was heading to Iraq the following week.	0,707
And even though she had health insurance through her job, it only covered $4,000 of her $53,000 hospital bill.	0,704
And there was a time not long before that when people might never have guessed that someday, African-Americans would be able to go to the polls, pick up a ballot, make their voice heard, and elect that Congress.	0,702
We worship an awesome God in the Blue States, and we don't like federal agents poking around our libraries in the Red States.	0,700
He grew up herding goats, went to school in a tin-roof shack.	0,694
Too often, the debate about education here in Washington degenerates to old arguments and stale ideas.	0,691
We should give local schools the latest technology training tools as John Chambers has done with the CISCO Networking Academy Program.	0,689
And after all that, she still may have been told that she was ineligible for Chapter 7 bankruptcy.	0,688
Tonight, if you feel the same energy I do, the same urgency I do, the same passion I do, the same hopefulness I do ?	0,687
When I was first asked to speak here, I thought to myself, never in a million years would I have guessed that I'd be serving in Congress with John Lewis.	0,687
The people I meet in small towns and big cities, in diners and office parks, they don't expect government to solve all their problems.	0,684
We need the courage to say that it's wrong that one out of every five children is born into poverty in the richest country on Earth.	0,684
And just as Lieutenant Kerry did not hesitate to risk his life to protect the men who served with him in Vietnam, President Kerry will not hesitate one moment to use our military might to keep America safe and secure.	0,681
We should curb bankruptcy abuse and to demand a measure of personal responsibility from people.	0,681
And so, as much as we'd like to believe that the face of this bankruptcy crisis is credit card addicts who spend their way into debt, the truth is that it's the face of people like Suzanne Gibbons.	0,678
But in a country of innovators and optimists - a country that pioneered the first moon landing, discovered the cure for polio, and led the technological revolution of the nineties - I have no doubt that we can.	0,677
And it would also require companies that emerge from bankruptcy to immediately pay each retiree who lost health benefits an amount of cash equal to what a retiree would be expected to have to pay for COBRA coverage for 18 months.	0,676
But with just one illness, emergency, or divorce, those dreams can be wiped out.	0,675
They would give me an African name, Barack, or "blessed," believing that in a tolerant America your name is no barrier to success.	0,670
I was 23 years old and Paul Simon, who was Lieutenant Governor at the time, sent me down there to investigate what could be done to improve the racial climate in Cairo."	0,670
And one of the towns we went to was a place called Cairo, which, as many of you might know, achieved a certain notoriety during the late 60s and early 70s as having one of the worst racial climates in the country.	0,668
As it is now, this bill makes it easier for a company like Enron who just bilked their employees out of their life savings to declare bankruptcy than for the employees themselves.	0,667
This is wrong.	0,666
And Dick tells me how he diligently goes down there and gets picked up by a local resident who takes him to his motel.	0,662
People are working harder and longer for less, and they're falling further and further behind.	0,657
We can do better than forcing people to choose between the cost of health care and the cost of college.	0,657
We can do better than big corporations using bankruptcy laws to deny health care and benefits to their employees.	0,655
The second amendment would prevent bankruptcy courts from dismissing companies' coal act obligations to pay their workers the benefits they promised them.	0,648
And in the ten minutes since I've been talking, about thirty of them have filed for bankruptcy.	0,648
John Kerry believes in the constitutional freedoms that have made our country the envy of the world, and he will never sacrifice our basic liberties nor use faith as a wedge to divide us.	0,645
From his heroic service in Vietnam to his years as prosecutor and lieutenant governor, through two decades in the United States Senate, he has devoted himself to this country.	0,643
With all that debt, she would have had to hire a lawyer and pay hundreds of dollars more in increased paperwork.	0,643
If this bill passes as written, Suzanne would be treated by the law the same as any scam artist who cheats the system.	0,641
In the end, that's what this election is about.	0,641
They worry that they could become the first generation of Americans to see their children do worse than they did.	0,640
And he marched, even when they tried to knock him down again and again and again.	0,638
Yet, I know that, on this night, they look down on me with pride.	0,637
The University of Illinois at Champagne-Urbana is where Marc Andreesen developed Mosaic, the browser that made the World Wide Web what it is today.	0,637
So instead of offering tax breaks to companies shipping jobs overseas, he'll offer them to companies creating jobs here at home.	0,634
These companies made a deal to their mine workers, and they should be forced to honor that deal.	0,633
He is a brutal man.	0,632
If there's a senior citizen somewhere who can't pay for her prescription and has to choose between medicine and the rent, that makes my life poorer, even if it's not my grandmother.	0,629
Now let me be clear: I suffer no illusions about Saddam Hussein.	0,628
And we can give people the basic tools and protections they need to believe that in America, your circumstance is no limit to the success you may achieve and the dreams you may fulfill.	0,627
They're investing in better universities, expanding research budgets and venture capital, producing more science and engineering graduates, and passing innovation-friendly public policies.	0,625
The consequences of war are dire, the sacrifices immeasurable.	0,625
He was often forced to leave school to work in the fields and the public library was off-limits to his kind, and yet young John Lewis sought knowledge.	0,624
The pundits like to slice-and-dice our country into Red States and Blue States; Red States for Republicans, Blue States for Democrats.	0,621
Where declaring Chapter 7 bankruptcy is made prohibitively expensive for people who already have suffered financial devastation.	0,621
Charging a penalty to consumers who make a late payment on a completely unrelated credit card is just one example of these tactics.	0,620
In my own state, we even had a mining company by the name of Horizon declare bankruptcy and then refuse to pay its employees the health benefits it owed them.	0,616
But I also know that Saddam poses no imminent and direct threat to the United States, or to his neighbors...and that in concert with the international community he can be contained until, in the way of all petty dictators, he falls away into the dustbin of history.	0,616
I am not opposed to all wars.	0,614
The families I've met are ready to try.	0,613
We can do better than falling to 10th place in the world when it comes to providing people with access to Broadband.	0,610
If there's an Arab American family being rounded up without benefit of an attorney or due process, that threatens my civil liberties.	0,610
And because the success of your businesses depend on your ability to fill jobs with great minds, we need more corporate and private investment in our schools.	0,607
They awakened a nation's conscience, and not five months later, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was signed into law.	0,606
The world, and the Iraqi people, would be better off without him.	0,606
Mr. President, the bankruptcy crisis this bill should address is not just the one facing credit card companies who are enjoying record profits.	0,604
Because of her illness, she was soon forced to leave her full-time nursing job and take a temp job that paid less and didn't offer health insurance.	0,603
About a week after the primary, Dick Durbin and I embarked on a nineteen city tour of Southern Illinois.	0,602
But Horizon didn't do its part, and it was allowed to hide behind bankruptcy laws to leave these workers without the care they had earned.	0,602
What I am opposed to is a dumb war.	0,600
Yet even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us, the spin masters and negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of anything goes.	0,599
They know that when it comes to their jobs and their wages, they're not only competing with workers in Naperville and Carbondale, but in New Delhi and Calcutta.	0,597
I'm opposed to dumb wars.	0,597
I know that even a successful war against Iraq will require a U.S. occupation of undetermined length, at undetermined cost, with undetermined consequences.	0,596
And he knows it's not enough for just some of us to prosper.	0,595
It's wrong to tell those brave men and women who are willing to fight and die for this country that when they come home, we may not have room for them at the VA hospitals or the benefits we promised them.	0,595
But we can do better than one bankruptcy every nineteen seconds.	0,594
You had an active white citizen's council there, you had cross burnings, Jewish families were being harassed, you had segregated schools, race riots, you name it - it was going on in Cairo.	0,594
I thought of more than 900 service men and women, sons and daughters, husbands and wives, friends and neighbors, who will not be returning to their hometowns.	0,593
Senator Rockefeller has two amendments to do this that I have co-sponsored and urge my colleagues to support.	0,593
the almost willful ignorance that thinks unemployment will go away if we just don't talk about it, or the health care crisis will solve itself if we just ignore it.	0,592
If there's a child on the south side of Chicago who can't read, that matters to me, even if it's not my child.	0,590
And we know that a recent Harvard study showed that nearly half of all bankruptcies occur because of an illness that ends up sticking families with medical bills they just can't keep up with.	0,590
When I was at the University of Chicago, other faculty members and myself developed a program where we essentially adopted primary schools to help them learn how to use the technological opportunities they were being offered.	0,589
But then I asked myself: Are we serving Shamus as well as he was serving us?	0,589
As bankruptcy professor Elizabeth Warren has noted, these are middle-class families with two parents who both work at good-paying jobs that put a roof over their heads.	0,588
We have to start the way Jim Barksdale of Netscape did when he gave a big grant and a lot of hope to preschoolers in Mississippi.	0,587
We know that most people fall into bankruptcy as a result of bad luck.	0,586
They remember that when we were all growing up, our parents knew that if they pushed us to study and work hard, the best universities would be open to us and we could get any job we wanted.	0,586
While studying here, my father met my mother.	0,585
John Kerry understands the ideals of community, faith, and sacrifice, because they've defined his life.	0,584
We're here today because when it comes to the global economy, the rules of the game have changed.	0,581
It doesn't bend on its own.	0,580
My grandfather signed up for a war the day after Pearl Harbor was bombed, fought in Patton's army.	0,579
But there are also millions of middle-class families out there who are struggling to get by.	0,579
With this bill, it doesn't matter if you ran up your debt on a trip to Vegas or a trip to the Emergency Room, you're still treated the same under the law and you still face the possibility that you'll never get the chance to start over.	0,579
Don't use the phone in your motel room because the switchboard operator is a member of the white citizen's council, and they'll report on anything you do."	0,577
That we can tuck in our children at night and know they are fed and clothed and safe from harm.	0,575
Because if you told Dick thirty years ago that he - the son of Lithuania immigrants born into very modest means in east St. Louis - would be returning to Cairo as a sitting United States Senator, and that he would have in tow a black guy born in Hawaii with a father from Kenya and a mother from Kansas named Barack Obama, no one would have believed it.	0,572
A war based not on reason but on passion, not on principle but on politics.	0,571
Today, I'm sure you'll all agree that we have songs left to sing and bridges left to cross.	0,571
So I'm wondering what kind of reception we're going to get.	0,570
Over the last thirty years bankruptcies have gone up 400% -- and we've had more than 2,100 in Illinois just last year.	0,569
There's not a black America and white America and Latino America and Asian America; there's the United States of America.	0,569
I believe we can provide jobs to the jobless, homes to the homeless, and reclaim young people in cities across America from violence and despair.	0,569
And we're not talking about the poor or even just the working poor here.	0,568
More to do for the workers I met in Galesburg, Illinois, who are losing their union jobs at the Maytag plant that's moving to Mexico, and now are having to compete with their own children for jobs that pay seven bucks an hour.	0,567
I am my brother's keeper, I am my sister's keeper ?	0,566
But we ought not – we will not – travel down that hellish path blindly.	0,562
More to do for the young woman in East St. Louis, and thousands more like her, who has the grades, has the drive, has the will, but doesn't have the money to go to college.	0,561
I thought of families I had met who were struggling to get by without a loved one's full income, or whose loved ones had returned with a limb missing or with nerves shattered, but who still lacked long-term health benefits because they were reservists.	0,557
She lost her retirement savings, she lost her house, and eventually, she was forced to declare bankruptcy.	0,555
Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the Depression.	0,553
That we can participate in the political process without fear of retribution, and that our votes will he counted ?	0,552
This is a fact not only understood by a roomful of Silicon Valley CEOs, but by families I met all across Illinois during the campaign.	0,551
It's wrong to tell hardworking families who are earning less and paying more in taxes that we can't do anything to help them buy their own home or send their kids to college or care for them when they're sick.	0,550
They know that parents have to parent, that children can't achieve unless we raise their expectations and turn off the television sets and eradicate the slander that says a black youth with a book is acting white.	0,548
His father, my grandfather, was a cook, a domestic servant.	0,548
He opens up the door and there's a guy standing there who just stares at Dick for a second, and then says, "What the hell are you doing here?"	0,547
We can't always control this and we can't promise that the changes will always leave everyone better off.	0,545
They imagined me going to the best schools in the land, even though they weren't rich, because in a generous America you don't have to be rich to achieve your potential.	0,542
And there was the culmination of it all one Sunday afternoon on a bridge in Alabama.	0,541
The decision about whether or not she can file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy would never take into account the fact that she fell into financial despair because of her illness.	0,537
I stand before you as someone who is not opposed to war in all circumstances.	0,535
My friends, we have not come this far as a people and a nation because we believe that we're better off simply fending for ourselves.	0,532
Proponents claim this bill is designed to curb the worst abuses of our bankruptcy system.	0,531
Because they were willing to spend sleepless nights in lonely jail cells, endure the searing pain of billy clubs cracked against their bones, and face down death simply so that all of us could share equally in the joys of life.	0,530
None of us expect or want the government to lead the next technological revolution, but I believe that we can provide the spark that fuels America's innovation and competitiveness in the global economy.	0,530
That people generally knew what was right and what was wrong, who the good guys and the bad guys were.	0,530
A while back, I met a young man named Shamus at the VFW Hall in East Moline, Illinois.	0,530
More to do for the father I met who was losing his job and choking back tears, wondering how he would pay $4,500 a month for the drugs his son needs without the health benefits he counted on.	0,530
Democrats, Republicans, Independents ?	0,529
Go into the collar counties around Chicago, and people will tell you they don't want their tax money wasted by a welfare agency or the Pentagon.	0,528
I want to thank TechNet for doing your part to get this dialogue going, and now I'd like to take a few questions from the audience.	0,528
What I am opposed to is the cynical attempt by Richard Perle and Paul Wolfowitz and other armchair, weekend warriors in this administration to shove their own ideological agendas down our throats, irrespective of the costs in lives lost and in hardships borne.	0,526
You know, two weeks after Bloody Sunday, when the march finally reached Montgomery, Martin Luther King Jr. spoke to the crowd of thousands and said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice."	0,526
And I wonder, where did they find that kind of courage?	0,526
They watch television but never wonder how it's put together.	0,525
And John Kerry believes that in a dangerous world, war must be an option, but it should never he the first option.	0,523
That in the face of the fiercest resistance and the most crushing oppression, one voice can be willing to stand up and say that's wrong and this is right and here's why.	0,521
But schools are where our children's dreams begin, and so schools are where we must begin to make those dreams come true.	0,521
It's wrong that this bill would make it harder for these unemployed workers to declare bankruptcy, while doing nothing to prevent the bankrupt company that put them there from shirking its responsibility entirely.	0,519
But we can, and I'm here, because people like John Lewis believed.	0,517
The Civil War was one of the bloodiest in history, and yet it was only through the crucible of the sword, the sacrifice of multitudes, that we could begin to perfect this union and drive the scourge of slavery from our soil.	0,515
When you're facing row after row of state troopers on horseback armed with billy clubs and tear gas...when they're coming toward you spewing hatred and violence, how do you simply stop, kneel down, and pray to the Lord for salvation?	0,513
And so he organized, even when so many tried to stop his efforts.	0,513
One would increase the required payments of wages and employee benefit plans to $15,000 per individual from the current level of $4,925.	0,510
I'm not talking about blind optimism here ?	0,509
Well, now Dick is really feeling concerned and so am I because as he's telling me this story, we're pulling in to Cairo.	0,506
Let's fight to wean ourselves off Middle East oil through an energy policy that doesn't simply serve the interests of Exxon and Mobil.	0,506
And then I thought, you know, there was once a time when John Lewis might never have guessed that he'd be serving in Congress.	0,502
Not only John and Hosea Williams leading the march, but the hundreds of everyday Americans who left their homes and their churches to join it.	0,497
There are patriots who opposed the war in Iraq and patriots who supported it.	0,489
I don't oppose all wars.	0,487
I don't oppose all wars.	0,487
I don't oppose all wars.	0,487
As I listened to him explain why he'd enlisted, his absolute faith in our country and its leaders, his devotion to duty and service, I thought this young man was all any of us might hope for in a child.	0,486
Because people like John Lewis feared nothing and risked everything for those beliefs.	0,482
But the moral certainties we now take for granted - that separate can never be equal, that the blessings of liberty enshrined in our Constitution belong to all of us, that our children should be able to go to school together and play together and grow up together - were anything but certain when John Lewis was a boy.	0,481
Then the collection agencies started coming after her for hospital bills that she just couldn't keep up with.	0,475
But I've got news for them, too.	0,474
Don't get me wrong.	0,473
It's not enough just to set down a computer in a classroom and walk away - we must also train teachers and administrators on how to use that computer and its technology to find new and better ways of educating our children.	0,473
I know that an invasion of Iraq without a clear rationale and without strong international support will only fan the flames of the Middle East, and encourage the worst, rather than best, impulses of the Arab world, and strengthen the recruitment arm of al-Qaeda.	0,471
But we know that's not the case.	0,471
These families tell me that they're anxious about their future.	0,467
Truly, this is the audacity of hope.	0,466
You want a fight, President Bush?	0,461
You want a fight, President Bush?	0,461
You want a fight, President Bush?	0,461
You want a fight, President Bush?	0,461
Well, I say to them tonight, there's not a liberal America and a conservative America there's the United States of America.	0,453
And Dick and I looked at each other and didn't have to say a thing.	0,450
What I am opposed to is a rash war.	0,448
What I am opposed to is the attempt by political hacks like Karl Rove to distract us from a rise in the uninsured, a rise in the poverty rate, a drop in the median income, to distract us from corporate scandals and a stock market that has just gone through the worst month since the Great Depression.	0,446
Let's fight to make sure that...we vigorously enforce a nonproliferation treaty, and that former enemies and current allies like Russia safeguard and ultimately eliminate their stores of nuclear material, and that nations like Pakistan and India never use the terrible weapons already in their possession, and that the arms merchants in our own country stop feeding the countless wars that rage across the globe.	0,445
This bill does a great job helping the credit card industry recover the profits they're losing, but what are we doing to help middle-class families recover the dreams they're losing?	0,442
We should be addressing middle-class families who are dealing with record hardships.	0,439
No, I'm talking about something more substantial.	0,438
But today, parents in cities and towns all over America are losing that hope - they're losing the sense that their kids will be able to dream the American dream.	0,438
But to accomplish that, this bill would take us from a system where judges weed out the abusers from the honest to a system where all the honest are presumed to be abusers.	0,433
I believe that to meet tomorrow's challenges, we should create a national network of academies to train 25,000 new teachers and get them into high-need rural and urban schools.	0,431
I say to you tonight: we have more work to do.	0,429
Let's fight to make sure our so-called allies in the Middle East, the Saudis and the Egyptians, stop oppressing their own people, and suppressing dissent, and tolerating corruption and inequality, and mismanaging their economies so that their youth grow up without education, without prospects, without hope, the ready recruits of terrorist cells.	0,425
John Kerry believes in an America where all Americans can afford the same health coverage our politicians in Washington have for themselves.	0,425
Well, this obviously makes Dick Durbin upset, but he's a brave young man, so he checks in to his room, unpacks his bags and a few minutes later he hears a knock on the door.	0,422
After September 11, after witnessing the carnage and destruction, the dust and the tears, I supported this administration's pledge to hunt down and root out those who would slaughter innocents in the name of intolerance, and I would willingly take up arms myself to prevent such tragedy from happening again.	0,420
John Kerry believes in energy independence, so we aren't held hostage to the profits of oil companies or the sabotage of foreign oil fields.	0,418
The road John chose for himself was not easy.	0,406
And while I remain hopeful that our companies want to do the right thing for their workers, doing so should not be a choice - it should be a mandate.	0,405
And right now at Argonne National Laboratory, scientists are developing the technology for "grid computing" - which IBM and others believe represents the future of the IT industry.	0,400
This year, in this election, we are called to reaffirm our values and commitments, to hold them against a hard reality and see how we are measuring up, to the legacy of our forbearers, and the promise of future generations.	0,397
The incredible story of progress that is America has always been built by those who ask why, what if, and why not.	0,372
That it comes not from violence or militancy or the kind of politics that pits us against each other and plays on our worst fears; but from great discipline and organization, from a strong message of hope, and from the courage to turn against the tide so that the tide eventually may be turned.	0,371
The Mine Workers involved had provided a total of 100,000 years of service and dedication and sacrifice to this company.	0,367
Our pride is based on a very simple premise, summed up in a declaration made over two hundred years ago, "We hold these truths to he self-evident, that all men are created equal.	0,348
I stand here knowing that my story is part of the larger American story, that I owe a debt to all of those who came before me, and that, in no other country on earth, is my story even possible.	0,347
I believe we can do better than cutting the budget for the National Science Foundation, as this year's budget has done for the first time.	0,331
